hi everyone my name is Pat Dirk I've
been working on file systems and file
servers on the Makah ever since the days
on the most excellent max i lke
supplanted d 512 as the top of the heap
so it's been a while and we've come a
very very long way we put together a
talk to give you some highlights of
things that you should be aware of when
you're using the file system mostly from
an application perspective we are going
to go in a little bit of background just
enough to sort of put the stage for all
these things and let an anchor for all
these things that make sense we'll talk
a little bit about the phd level api's
but also about the higher-level
frameworks so we're going to focus on is
how to make your applications go faster
basically how to make your i/o go faster
and how to work better overall with the
system particularly in light of some new
technologies that we're introducing
extended attributes tackles that sort of
thing will say a few words about
monitoring other ongoing things in the
system kind of common areas that
applications often get bogged down doing
things that are unnecessarily wasteful
so we'll try to hit all the highlights
and then we'll probably lots of time for
Q&A afterwards we'll have the whole team
up and you can ask anything you want so
a bit of background on the colonel and
the bfg parts of the system there are
actually a number of different
frameworks that people access the API
through there's the object-oriented
cocoa set of frameworks that people use
there's a familiar carbon ap is and the
low-level bsd api is that are the
foundation for all of them and the thing
to bear in mind is that everything that
is done in the system is done at some
point through some BS dapi so if you
don't mind getting down to the really
nitty gritty the via the API you can
will let you do anything you want to do
inside the system at the highest level
is the virtual file system layer and
that provides a common set of system
call interfaces to all other parts of
the system as well as providing some
common services like pathname
translation a certain amount of access
checking
NFS export servers that are just common
to all layers of the system but beyond
that it uses an extensible interface to
lower level specific file system
implementations and works with a buffer
cache nvm that I'll say a few words more
in a moment because the buffer cache in
i think it was jaguar or maybe panther
was changed from a separate buffer pool
that set aside the vm system and
competed with vm for who had the correct
copy of something to a unified buffer
cache that coordinates with vm to make
sure that there's only one copy of your
data in the system at any one place and
there's a set of code called ubc the
unified buffer cache the basically
coordinates who owns a given page at any
given time and and swap the ownership
between the two so the important thing
is whatever there is of your data
there's only one copy of it floating
around in the system now at the lowest
level there's a few very simple set of I
yo calls there's open clothes readwrite
truncate seek just the bare necessities
and there's M map which we'll talk about
it in some more length later on we have
some basic metadata operations you can
open a directory for reading you can
read through it and get some information
on the various items that are in a
directory we'll talk about that some
more later too because that's another
way that you might want to be careful
stat is a basic call to get the metadata
on an item and then there's a few other
calls
we extended the basic vse mechanism a
bit to support some of the things that
HFS had brought to Mac OS 9 when we
first introduced mac OS 10 you couldn't
quite port all of the existing Mac OS 9
functionality to the BSD ap is that I
just mentioned so we introduced a pair
of calls get out a list and set out a
list that let you do stat and to mod
things in a slightly different more
expensive expendable way and a new call
get their entry shatter that probably
few people call directly but it's used
by the frameworks in the system to do
efficient enumeration of items in the
same way that get catalog in folded in
addition we introduced search FS which
is an interesting API because it lets
you search the entire catalog of a disk
in marla's block order so the
performance of search efest is
dramatically faster than doing a
complete tree traversal of every single
directory in the file system we added a
few f.ctrl selectors to let you do
things like pre allocating space on a
disk and other things like that and new
in the tiger release and we'll talk a
bit more about that are extended
attributes and ackles in general
although I said you can do everything at
the lowest level in the BSC system
you're probably best off using the
higher level frameworks cocoa or carbon
in the system because the bsd a level of
api's makes no attempt to hide all the
differences between the different file
systems so if some file system doesn't
support a certain feature is just not
going to work on the BSD call and
frameworks like my carbon will provide
uniform access to things like resource
forks and even emulate them if necessary
on file systems that don't directly
support them so in general you're best
off using the highest level API that you
can use
they'll say a bit more about the
extended attributes extended attributes
are new in Tiger the release that you
have has only a very limited
implementation of the extended
attributes they're basically only
supported on the HFS file system but in
Tiger extended attributes will be
supported across all file systems they
are however going to be fragile in much
the same way that the resource fork has
always been and one of the things I hope
you'll take away from this talk is that
if you're manipulating files in the file
system if you're making copies of things
if you're transferring things around you
should be mindful that like a resource
fork they may have extended attributes
associated with them and you should be
careful to preserve them while I'm on
the subject of the resource work by the
way if your code still has any
references to file name / resource now
is definitely the release to get rid of
that we had enough we've supported that
for a while but it's not the way to
refer things if you want to you can use
named fork / resource the biggest trick
is always doing a safe safe and
unfortunately exchange files which was
invented for that purpose in Mac OS 9 is
not supported on all file systems or all
protocols besides which you're going to
be have to be you're gonna have to be in
general careful to preserve extended
attributes and ackles as well if you
were here two o'clock today you refer to
talk about the ackles and what to do
about that we have a few recommendations
alas there is no completely safe atomic
solution the problem with exchange files
even on file systems where it is
supported is that it doesn't work on
directories so you're always going to
have to be prepared to take a fallback
option and use something like rename for
instance to replace valve in place and
we're going to try to make rename work
in a way that preserves the extended
attributes and ackles of the target that
your renaming to
just to facilitate doing this kind of
safe safe operation now if you're
creating new files based on a copy of an
old song you should look at using these
new api's in some form and the release
that you have only have support in the
BSC layer they're not in the frameworks
right now so that's still to come but
the basic idea is that you should use
the extended stat calls to get a no peg
foul topic and salt descriptor of the
top security information and then use
one of the new open calls to create a
file on disk that atomically has all
those akal a tribute set there's a new
API being introduced that you should
consider using to mark files as busy so
that other applications that use the
same API can find out whether a foul is
currently in the middle of being copied
for instance there have been a variety
of different hacks that people have used
to do that but now there's an official
API and the implementation of that uses
extended attributes for instance so it's
another reason to preserve the extended
attributes wherever you can wherever
possible if exchange files are
supportive and your document format is a
single straight data file the best way
to do a save save is to do an exchange
valve but you're always going to have to
have a fallback option and the best
thing you can do if you've created the
file correctly is to just do a rename in
place if your document format is a
bundle if it's really a directory with
files contained underneath there you can
do one of two things in either either
create a complete parallel directory in
place and then rename one out of the way
and rename it not atomic but it'll work
and the other option is to create the
updated file somewhere inside the
top-level director so they're invisible
from the user and then using either
exchange files or rename switch them in
place with the pieces that you're
updating and only you can decide based
on your application which model makes
most sense
now some things to be aware of locking
support is unfortunately not uniform
across the hall file systems it's good
practice to lock files if you think
there may be contention for but there
will be found systems either local or
networked all systems that don't support
that rename does not support file IDs
that was one of the big advantages that
exchange files brought is that if you
had an alias to a file exchange files
would replace the data while leaving the
file ID intact and an alias would find
it again that's one of the appeals of
using exchange files fortunately alias
data structures have some additional
resolution mechanisms built in that will
make it possible to find the file even
if the authority is lost because you use
rename instead of exchange valve but
exchange files are still preferable and
as I mentioned rename cannot atomically
replace directories in addition wanting
to be careful about is that not all
networks all systems allow you to rename
files that are open so if you have a
choice about it it's best to close the
file first or at least flush it before
you try replacing it and on the subject
of that be careful because on some file
systems clothes may actually do a very
significant amount of i/o and a webdav
file system for instance it's not until
close time that the actual data is all
transferred over to the server that may
also be systems that don't actually
guarantee that your quota has been
checked properly for instance until the
file is actually closed and on disk so
you should try closing the file before
you use it to replace data and if you
can't close it at least call s think on
it to force a flush of the data and
check for errors on both of those before
you allow the data to be replaced so a
word about file copying and this is
actually one of the shortest sections of
the talk we've had lots of requests over
the years to allow people access to the
finder copy engine
and that's what we're introducing in
Tiger so you'll actually get access not
directly to the finders engine but
they're the same engine that the finder
uses but you'll be able to do copies
exactly the same way to find it does and
if you can use this new effort file
operations API to transfer files around
moving or copying that will be by far
the best way to do it because we'll
guarantee that that does the best job
possible on the various all systems
involved the API will let you do either
synchronous or asynchronous copies and
you can set a callback routine to be
called at a rate that you specify so
that you can do whatever animation you
want to do to show the copy in progress
or anything like that it's very nice and
and that's what the tiger finder is
going to be using so that's an example
where the highest possible level of API
is just ideal so few words about
performance you may have more choices
about how to do I owe in Mac OS 10 and
in Tiger then you may have otherwise
there are a few caveats that apply
generally obviously the few our iOS you
do the better and the more you can
aggregate iOS into a few large iOS the
better the colonel will to some extent
coalesce operations that you do to make
fewer larger operations out of a few
single one it will do read ahead caching
and right behind caching so you may be
picking a benefit that you weren't even
aware of there is something very
specific mostly on HFS about zero fill
the UNIX all semantics specified that
data that has not been written should
read back as zeros and the system goes
out of its way to make sure that that is
true even on top systems like HSS which
don't actually support spar style
semantics so what that means is if you
take a file and created and skip ahead a
100k into the file and start writing
there and you try to read something out
of the Middle the system will actually
supply zeros for
all those areas and write those on disk
if necessary if you close the file only
having written that last a little bit at
100 k out there it will fill the inter
meeting intermediate space on disk with
zeros so that's another example of a
significant amount if I yo that you
might incur when you when you do close a
few words about 0 Phil later too now in
general there is a couple of different
ways that you can do I oh and we'll talk
about them all in turn you can do
standard buffered reads and writes you
can directly memory map a file on disk
anywhere on disc into your address space
and accesses that way you can do
uncashed unbuffered io which is great if
you're ripping through very large data
sets you have no reason to believe will
be touched again later and we're now
introducing support for true
asynchronous i/o in the kernel as well
and that's another option you may want
to consider now in the bufferedreader
I've case it's the most general of all
the mechanisms you can transfer any
amount of data to any place you want in
your address space there are some costs
associated with that the data is first
transferred into the buffer cache and
then explicitly copied out of the buffer
cache into your application space
dirtying a page in the process so you're
incurring an extra copy and you're
dirtying the page but if you're right if
you're reading a writing small files and
if you have no reason to think that they
might not be touched shortly after or if
you really need the flexibility of
writing a small amount of data in a very
particular place in your address space
this is the perfect mechanism to use and
if you're just doing reads and writes
and doing nothing else this is the
mechanism you're using by contrast you
can if you want to give up control over
the location of the data use memory
mapped i/o you can call em if you have
to call the low-level bsd sausage of all
there's no framework level call for this
but you can ask a system to map a file
in your address space and it will just
appear you'll be given the address and
you can access the data right there and
it will be paged in directly off the
file on disk if you're reading in a file
this is a great way to read it if you
don't care where the data ends up you
can just use you
a favor and beat copy routine to read
your file there's only a single copy
made of the data because the system
doesn't have to relocate it to the place
where you requested it be but everything
is left clean so if the pages need to be
reused later they can simply be tossed
they don't need to be written out to
swap space and although you can
overwrite data that way and it will be
paged out to the file you can't actually
extend the file that way that's the only
limitation the big caveat on using
memory mapped i/o is that if you
encounter any i/o errors because say it
was on some removable disk and the disk
was removed or it was on a network file
and the network connection was broken or
something it's as if you hit a bad ram
chip I mean you get a you get a memory
access error so it's a it's a little bit
more severe than just getting an error
back onto my Oh transfer you may want to
keep that in mind and limit this type of
operation to local non removable media
but with that caveat in mind it may be
an attractive way to do I own and it's
very clean some of the benefits of doing
that kind of i/o can also be had by
doing direct uncashed I oh you can call
s control in the system to request that
I owe to a certain file descriptor is
done uncashed and the system will take
advantage as much as possible of the
alignment of the data to do the optimal
possible transfer direct from disk the
reason I recommend using 4k aligned
buffers for instance is that where
possible the system will DMA the data
directly from the disk controller into
your memory and it will never be copied
in in a row the pages are are dirty but
it doesn't blow through your cash so if
the system cache is filled with pages
from your application or pages from
other files that you've touched or pages
from the disk structures that you're
hitting you don't end up forcing them
all out of memory just because you read
some multi megabyte data file so it's
something to think about and there are
ways that you can do uncashed IO from
the carbon framework for instance show
that in a minute async i/o is a standard
API that we're introducing support for
in tiger it's a complete implementation
of the standard posix async i oh you can
initiate a sink I'll requests you can
get notified by a variety of mechanisms
the iOS are handed down to the colonel
in parallel so in theory they could
proceed in parallel to some extent and
if you're calling the carbon TV read for
casing for pb right for casing you can
specify explicitly that you want the
system to do concurrent async I oh by
default the carbon framework actually
emulates a sink i/o by having a separate
thread that is introduced by the system
to take care of the iOS while the rest
of your process is allowed to proceed
and so things are essentially single
threaded on the async side but if you
want you can now specify that the system
should do two concurrent asynchronous
i/o and it will get done that line
caching is a subtle trade-off that you
should be very careful about it seems
and it was true in earlier versions of
the system that the more things you can
keep in memory the faster your
application would go unfortunately in
the system like Mac os10 where
everything is is back through vm that's
not necessarily so because just the cost
of expanding your memory footprint and
introducing extra memory pressure in the
system and having to possibly evict
pages and write them out the disk to
make room for the things you're about to
cash then reading in the information and
then possibly having to flush that
dirtied page out to swap again when it
isn't actually being used may really
drive up the cost of caching beyond the
point where reading it off data in the
first place or keeping it mapped
possibly would have been a far more
efficient trade-off besides that having
something cash is no true guarantee that
anything will be really fast but the
page may still disappear and it may
still need to be read in from swap so
it's not as if you're somehow guaranteed
real-time access to anything unless
you're actually going yr a page down or
something like that which has
performance trade-offs all its own so be
very careful when you think about
building up large in-memory caches of
something because the additional memory
pressure you introduced may make the
system slower not faster and as I said
about 0 fill
the system goes out of its way to fill
pages with zeros if necessary it also
tries to defer that as much as possible
it tracks in memory what is actually
being written and it's not as simple as
skipping around and doing i/o ahead in a
non sequential way it will guarantee
that you end up doing right of zeros but
it does introduce that possibility and
if you can possibly write your files out
sequentially you'll be that much better
off you can use allocate instead of Seti
OS to allocate space without forcing
zero fills because set eos actually
would move the eos of the file out on
disk and with 40 fields of areas that
you don't actually write as part of that
right allocate simply reserves the space
in advance allocate is not supported on
all file systems you should just ignore
any errors you get because the right
will allocate the space as it goes
anyway but calling allocate is a good
idea and it's a better idea than calling
set eos finally if the file your writing
is just a scratch file and you're
writing it randomly in different places
so you're going to be leaving lots of
holes truncate the fall to zero before
you close it because that will preclude
the system from writing any zeros out
the disk on data that you're going to
just throw away anyway so you have a
scratch file and you're going to delete
it as soon as you close it anyway
truncate it to 0 first and make sure you
may have skipped any zero filled with
the system might have to introduce clean
a few words about directory enumeration
which is another area that also apps can
spend lots of time you can call the raw
bsd reader and staff called on a full
path you can use get catalog info in the
carbon frame work to get equal and
information out of stat there are new
calls that were introduced the get their
entries adder I referred to earlier are
the bsd level call a bit the get
callaghan for bulk is the carbon
equivalent of that call and it will
enumerate a directory and collect the
metadata you request as it goes
the big way that you can save there is a
call actually has a field which info
which specifies which fields in the
metadata you're actually interested in
and for some file systems that would
otherwise end up emulating some of the
data or go through contortions to
generate some version or derive some
version of the data if you don't
actually care about some of the
information you can indicate that by
setting that which info carefully and if
you set that to a smaller set as
possible the system will only collect
together as much metadata as is
absolutely necessary to satisfy the
request now finally the file system
search FS has a carbon equivalent of
catalog search it's an interesting
mechanism that if you're going to do a
very large search of essentially the
whole disk anyway maybe a far better way
of searching the data it's surprisingly
fast in about 3-4 seconds you can search
an enormously large hard disks catalog
in its entirety and you can search for
matches based on a whole slew of
metadata parameters or filename
substring or things like that so if
you're scanning a volume use search if s
don't do a tree traversal of the whole
thing starting from the roof so thing to
consider so overall and carefully about
how you access data and make sure that
you choose an appropriate mechanism for
the type of access that you're doing or
perhaps change the way you access data
or write data to better suit the
mechanism and avoid zero fill on top
systems like HFS there's a great quote
that says more things are committed in
the name of optimization however
illusory than an actual code and that's
very true if you're going to set about
optimizing your application analyze it
first and make sure you find the true
hotspots in your application before you
go wild introducing some new caching
scheme or something because you're
convinced that this part of the code is
was actually really slow and instead end
up creating a much larger memory
footprint that cost you in performance
when it should have gained
Jim if you're porting an app from
another system this is a good time to
consider how you're actually hitting the
disk in the file system and some things
that you may think are cheap are in fact
expensive and some things that would
have been expensive on other systems are
in fact quite cheap so it's a good time
to revisit some of the fundamental
assumptions that you may have in your
data and speaking of assumptions don't
make assumptions about the speed of
accessing some of these things because
innocent things like preferences could
easily be located across the net on an
NFS server that may have crashed a
minute ago for instance and what you
think is a very quick access to refresh
your preferences or something could
potentially take a long amount of time
so be careful about what you assume now
say a few words about security and
ackles which are both new and the tiger
release you by now probably familiar
with the standings unix permissions
model that mac OS 10 has supported all
this time there's a single owner a
single group and three categories of
access for each one read write and
execute there's a slight wrinkle in that
we allow the ignoring of who actually
owns a file on removable media and we do
that by default but this is the basic
model access control lists change all
that instead of having one owner and one
group and 1 others category you can
invent as many categories as you want
and you can build up a large list of
aces access control entries that specify
for individual categories what they're
allowed to do or what they're not
allowed to do and the system takes the
whole list of things into account before
falling back to the standard POSIX
permissions so it's very powerful and it
lets you do some of the things that ap
servers for instance let you do where
owners and groups can each be so she
ated with their own
their own group of access a donut or as
group if you were at the two o'clock
ackles talk you saw that the group
mechanism has been greatly expanded the
system is no longer limited to fix
sixteen groups per user has given up on
the idea of trying to pre enumerate the
groups that every user belongs to and
instead there is a very flexible user
level group membership demon that the
system consults to determine which users
are members of which groups dynamically
and cash those results so as a result
are things possible that we're not easy
to before which is to have groups that
contain other groups for instance and
groups that are completely determined
over the network in a very flexible way
it's great stuff so the akal a fee i is
based on the POSIX standard proposal
that was not adopted and what has been
withdrawn but it's very much based on
that and the actual permissions rather
than being strictly the POSIX read write
execute model are a much more flexible
much more fine-grained set of
permissions that for instance separate
control over metadata extended
attributes from control over the data of
a file so it will be conceivable for
instance to have a set of images photos
that are read-only documents whose
metadata you can control and set your
own keywords on and things like that so
what you can and cannot do has become
much more flexible besides more flexible
control over the appearance of a single
file there's also more flexible control
over the metadata and the directory
structures themselves there is ways that
you can inherit access control
information from a parent to a file that
gets created there are separate control
over the ability to control items within
a directory without regard for the
actually controls on the item itself a
lot of new stuff there
and there's a session tomorrow at five
o'clock not sure where about the
extended metadata api's there was an
ankle session today at two o'clock I'll
have references all those later so
finally notification is another area
that a napkin easily spend lots of
cycles perhaps unnecessarily the obvious
way you might go about seeing whether
something changed if you have a folder
that people can drop plugins into or
something like that is to periodically
poll and see if the mod eight of that
directory has changed that will work but
you're spending time even when nothing's
happening in the system so one
improvement on that is the whole FN
subscribe if I notify mechanism that's
been around but a much nicer solution
that we introduced support for is cake
use and i'll say a few words about cake
use the basic model of cake use was
derived from the observation that
applications spending lots of time in
basically a select loop war or poll the
problems are not fundamentally different
between the two are very wasteful just
in the system call / had to do those
things and so k qs were introduced to
give a model where instead of specifying
like on a select the set of file
descriptors that you're interested in
data being ready for on the select call
itself you would create a cake you and
you're given maca file descriptor like
an open file would be and then you call
k event to specify the set of file
descriptors that you're interested in io
happening on and then you processes put
to sleep waiting for anything to happen
on any of those file descriptors and
when it wakes up is told something has
happened on this all descriptor
so just a basic select loop mechanism is
much more efficient that way we've
implemented a source compatible with the
3 sv version of cake use but we've also
extended to mechanism a bit by
introducing additional event filter
classes and one of the classes is a mach
port filter class that will tell you
whether some message has arrived on a
mach port and another one tells you
about things happening in the system for
instance whether fall systems get
mounted or unmounted anywhere in the
system if one of those events happens
your your cake you would get an event
deliver to it the one thing to keep in
mind about cake use and part of the
reason why they're so efficient in the
kernel is that it's not an actual queue
of individual discrete events being
notified to you but rather a single
notification that some condition has
come to be true in the system so you
wouldn't get ten little events saying
three bytes are available at your file
descriptor five more are available on
this JavaScript or ten more you would
get a single event that says there's
data available on this file descriptor
so that's something to be mindful of in
the model it's not supported on all
volume formats because the
implementation does require support
inside the file system itself and if you
are a client to a network file server
you should be mindful that you'll you
may get notifications but you will only
get them about the local events
happening going out to that file server
not necessarily all the other things all
the other clients of that server are
doing on the server itself so the two
things to keep in mind and when you open
a file descriptor on a directory for
instance to request notifications about
that directory there is a flag you
should you should set Oh event only
which says that this file descriptor is
going
we use strictly for event delivering
because that will let the system
correctly decide at unmount time whether
a file system is truly busy or not so to
avoid father scriptures that are open
solely for the purposes of notification
from preventing you from unmounting a
file system if you Seto event only on
the open the file system will let the UH
not go ahead anyway so ol vent only is
one to be very mindful of overall
unfortunately despite the best efforts
of the higher level frameworks there are
lots of capabilities that are very
specific to individual file systems and
if you rely on some particular behavior
in the system you should probably check
beforehand whether the particular
process Tim you're operating on support
step and there's a variety of ways that
that can be done there are good a
duelist variants that will tell you
something about the capabilities of a
certain volume format at the carbon
level there's to get both arms calls but
be mindful of it and either test ahead
of time or even better be prepared with
a fallback option in case the behavior
you need is not supported by the
particular file system but with that
caveat make use of all the process and
special capabilities that you want
a few word about some of the tools that
you all have available one that I find
myself using on at least daily basis is
FS usage it's a great tool that lets you
monitor all the file system activity in
the system and you can constrict it to a
particular application or you can
monitor everything that's happening in
the whole system if you want to find for
instance who it is is writing a certain
Fowler creating a certain something and
you can find out the file system call
that's made the process that made it
what the results of the call where's you
can see errors happening if some
application is throwing up his hands
without any clear indication of what's
going wrong you can run FS usage and see
what kind of file system errors is
getting it's a great tool SC usage of
the same thing for other system calls
the features have been somewhat expanded
in Tiger since the last police you may
be familiar with so it's worth checking
out the dash F option and if you run
with the debug versions of the system
frameworks you'll get tracing at that
level so you'll find out not just that a
stat call is being made but that the
application is going get catalog info
which is causing the stat call to be
made so it's good stuff top is another
great tool to get a quick look at so
there's a very high level what's going
on in the system you see all the running
processes you'll see who's using cpu
time who's making system calls because
you can you can see the context which is
happening there's some summary
information that will tell you the
paging rates in the system the number of
iOS that are happening how busy the
system is it's great for just sort of
getting a feel for a the system's a
little sluggish what's going on and if
you find the map that's peg did 99% of
the CPU time you cut your suspect to go
look at time is a great command line
tool that will just count iOS and tell
you how much I owe is done how much user
time and how much system time is taken
as part of executing certain process
and if you're setting about optimizing
your application monitoring both of
those is interesting to do sample is
great for looking where process is
spending its time there are more
powerful profiling tools available like
shark which is part of the chudd tool
that is that you can install but sample
especially when you think the process is
stuck is a great quick command line tool
to get a look at what the current stack
frame is in another process and finally
lsof will tell you about all the open
files in the system so if you can't
eject the volume because some files busy
helps whoever can tell you who has it
open or if you want to find out what
files an application is keeping open you
can find out through lsof those are just
some of the tools there are specific
sessions that were devoted to doing
performance analysis and profiling of
your tools that are very much worth
looking into but FS usage is one of my
favorites shark definitely worth
checking out I think to the session on
Friday devoted just to shark for
instance so check it out for more
information in general you can contact
Jason yo and there are also some
resources on the DVD and online that
will tell you more about the particular
file system or in general software
design guidelines